---
description: "The back half of team dynamics."
---

# Teams part two, the Weick stuff.

I am a fan of the work of Karl Weick around [sense-making in
organizations](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1118862414) and
success/failure modes in teams under conditions of high stress:
firefighters, airplane flight crews, aircraft carrier deck crews,
etc. I tend to refer to the general topic as "resiliency", i.e. "I try
hard to build resilient teams." I think IT, with its high levels of
complexity and high rate of change, is a really good place to
intentionally build our version of resiliency into our teams.

If you want a couple of quick starting points, Weick has some good
articles available online: one on the [Mann Gulch forest fire
disaster](https://www.nifc.gov/safety/mann_gulch/suggested_reading/The_Collapse_of_Sensemaking_in_Organizations_The_Mann_Gulch.pdf),
and another on the [Tenerife airline
collision](https://deepblue.lib.umich.edu/bitstream/handle/2027.42/68716/10.1177_014920639001600304.pdf). I
have a whole set of brown-bag sessions organized around Weick's
theories of resiliency in high-risk teams, but the basics boil down to
a handful of attitudes and behaviors that enhance reliability and
adaptability during times of stress and crisis.

## Anticipation.

Three of Weick's resilient behaviors have to do with consciously
building a team culture that anticipates the possibility of what he
calls "brutal audits", i.e. when unexpected events test the systems
that you've built without warning.

Attitudes of anticipation include:

*   **Preoccupation with failure.** Pay conscious attention to
    anomalies that could be symptoms of larger problems in the
    system. Stay aware of vulnerabilities; report bad news
    immediately; interpret near-misses as failures and analyze
    accordingly; think about errors you don't want to make.
	
*   **Reluctance to simplify.** Your brain is a heuristic processor:
    it wants "actionable simplicities." You have to consciously resist
    this tendency to oversimplify complexity. Label tentatively;
    welcome skepticism; seek variety of opinion; keep updating your
    mental map of the systemic situation; don't get stuck in
    preconceptions.
	
*   **Sensitivity to operations.** Pay attention to what is actually
    happening, regardless of intentions, designs, or plans. Ask
    actionable questions; maintain situational humility; simulate
    everything; communicate relentlessly; speak up, and don't let your
    managers get disconnected from the reality on the ground.

## Containment.

Two of Weick's resilient behaviors have to do with maintaining team
functions while absorbing the inevitable disturbances that come with
high complexity and high rates of change.

Attitudes of containment include:

*   **Commitment to resilience.** Resilience is composed of elasticity
    \(stretching without breaking\) and recoverability \(returning to
    a stable state after the crisis passes\). Thing about permanent
    fixes, not just immediate mitigation; enlarge competencies and
    response repertoires with cross-training and test drills; don't
    overdo the lean ideal \(keep some slack in the system\); practice
    adaptation and improvisation.
	
*   **Deference to expertise.** When the brutal audit arrives, don't
    let the org chart be your enemy: authority is not the same thing
    as expertise. Don't be afraid to be the expert \(make decisions if
    appropriate\); don't be afraid to ask for help \(if you're not the
    expert\); value experience more than rank; don't be afraid to
    point things out; make sure to listen with humility.
