---
description: 'Three channels, depending on how quickly you want a response.'
---

# Modes and urgency.

## Email

My email address is
[msimpson@internet2.edu](mailto:msimpson@internet2.edu).

Use this communication channel for low-urgency messages, read-and-file
broadcast notifications, etc. I'm trying to only check email four
times a day \(first thing in the morning, right before lunch, right
after lunch, and last thing in the afternoon\), rather than doing that
dysfunctional-but-common thing of nervously bouncing back to my inbox
every five or ten minutes to see if anything important has arrived
\(it almost never has\).

My goal is no more than a one business day turnaround on anything that
seems to need a response, or at least an acknowledgement that I got
the email, I'm working on it, and a deadline by which you can expect
the full response.

## Chat

I'm on the the [Internet2 Slack
instance](https://slack.internet2.edu/) as "Mike Simpson" \(full name
and display name\).

Use this communication channel for medium-urgency messages, either
individual or group, where you're looking for a response sooner than
via email, or where the nature of the conversation is perhaps more
transitory. I stay logged into Slack whenever I'm working; I may
occasionally turn off notifications if I'm trying to concentrate on
something, but I generally leave them turned on.

My goal here is no more than a two business hour turnaround on
answering or otherwise acknowledging a chat message, i.e. if I'm in a
meeting I won't respond right away, but I'll tend to check Slack right
after a meeting ends, and reply to anything that's accumulated at that
point.

## Phone

My personal cell phone is [\(608\) 692-0539](tel:608-692-0539).

Use this communication channel \(as voice or text\) for high-urgency
messages, when you really need to get in touch with me right away. I
almost always have my cell phone on me; if I see a named incoming call
\(i.e. you've given me the number you're calling from so it's in my
contacts\) I'll answer it right away; only because I'm getting a lot
of spam calls these days I let unnamed \(non-contact\) numbers go to
voice mail, but I'll verify and respond to legitimate voice mails
within a few minutes.

Again, my goal here is to answer immediately if at all possible.
